We're not restricted to get and post requests,
there are more HTTP methods and it just depends on the API you're working,
which kind of requests you can send
and here this JSONPlaceholder dummy API also supports deleting a resource,
again it's just a fake as it says here but we can send a delete request to this URL
and now please note that this new URL is a little bit different, here it includes the ID of a concrete
post to fake that we delete that post.
Now if we have a look at our list, we do have a delete button on every post,
now we just have to make sure that the ID which is part of every response is kind of mapped to its
element so that we can then find out on which element we clicked the delete button to send the right delete
request. For that in the place where we output all posts, here,
when we render the post elements, I actually also want to add an ID property here.
For that, I want to go to my post element there and then use query selector li to select the li element
itself and set the ID on that to post.id, so that we have that ID assigned to every list item
element. If I now reload this page and click fetch posts here and we go to the elements tab, you'll see
every list item has its ID as an attribute added.
Now we can use that to then make that delete button work, for that we should add a listener to the delete
button and now we could add a listener to each delete button or we use event delegation, which we learned
about in the events module, to only use one listener on the list and then find out which list item or
which button in which list item was clicked. For that we need access to the overall list here, post list
with document query selector unordered list because I only have one unordered list on this page and
here on post list, we can add an event listener for a click and then accept the event object and do something.
Now of course, I don't want to delete anything just because a click happened anywhere on that list,
instead we now need to find out which item was clicked and if it was the button that was clicked there
and not just anything else in the item. To check that, we can reach out to event.target, we can then
have a look at the tag name property.
Now if that is button, all uppercase, then I know I clicked on a button.
Now let's first of all check if that works by logging clicked on button, like this and
if I now save that, reload, fetch the post,
if I click anywhere nothing happens, if I click on delete, we see clicked on button.
Now we need to find out to which list item this belongs
and for that we get the post.id by using event.target.closest to get the closest list item,
we know we clicked on a button,
now I'm interested in the closest list item
and then on this list item, we have the ID.
So now this should give us the ID of the post we clicked on or on which posts delete button we
clicked on.
So if we save that and reload, if I fetch posts and I click on delete, here I print one, here I print
three,
here I print five, so that seems to work.
Now we can work on the actual delete request. For that,
let's again send a HTTP request here,
this time of type delete and for the URL, I'll now use back ticks because I want to inject something
into the URL so to say. The general URL is the same as before,
so we can copy that but then we need to add a new segment to the path,
so a new slash and then dynamically injected the post.id so that we add this at the end of the path
because that's what the API wants. The API wants that the ID is part of the URL, the ID of the
post which should be fake deleted. Well and with that, we should be good, now a delete request should
be sent when we click on delete.
So if I click delete here and we check the network tab, we see here
this request was sent, it's a delete request to this URL and that's all right.
The API doesn't seem to reply back with anything, it doesn't say so on the guide here either and therefore,
that's it.
Now of course you could delete the element from the UI,
that's something you absolutely can implement,
it's not related to HttpRequests though and therefore I'll save the time here, not update the UI and
instead move onto other nice things you can do with HttpRequests.